---
type: "book"
author: "Amaya, Hector"
title: "Screening Cuba: Film Criticism as Political Performance During the Cold War"
date: 2010-01-01
citekey: amayaScreeningCubaFilm2010
---
Amaya, Hector. _Screening Cuba: Film Criticism as Political Performance During the Cold War_. Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 2010.
[online](http://zotero.org/users/40/items/FNBY5ZA2) [local](zotero://select/library/items/FNBY5ZA2) [pdf](file:///Users/er/zotero/storage/P7ES36W9/Amaya_Screening%20Cuba%20Film%20Criticism%20as%20Political%20Perfor_2010.pdf)
%%^ This is your source information from Zotero (expand for more)
 This information about your source was imported from Zotero with [Zotero Integration plugin](https://github.com/mgmeyers/obsidian-zotero-integration) (installed in this vault). To learn more, check out [instructions](https://publish.obsidian.md/history-notes/From+Zotero+Annotations+to+Obsidian+Research+Notes) on how to import metadata from Zotero. 
 Note: local and online links are specific to my Zotero database so they won't work for you.%%

 %%In the space in between --- lines (YAML space), fields are delimited by a single column ":" and field data is put in quotation marks. __If you switch to the reading view (click on the eyeglasses icon above), my comments and the YAML space will not be visible.__%%

 %%You can use these fields to do more precise searches through your research notes, for example, to find all notes from a particular book, by a particular author, or from a particular folder in an archive.%% 

 %%To view a custom search interface for research note, click on "Manage Workspaces" button on the left and choose "Search-research-notes," or use keyboard shortcut `Ctrl-S` (on Mac). To get back to this view, choose "Work-with-notes" in Workspaces, or use shortcut `Ctrl-N` (on Mac) to open a found note in the notes workspace and view its graph.%%

#source/secondary
#project/film-censorship
%%^ These are your tags. 
 You can create nested tags. You can add types of sources, such as "primary" or "secondary;" project name; types of people, such as "writer" or "fictional character", etc. 
 To find all records tagged by a tag, just click on it.
 To see tag list, click on the # icon on the left. 
 To see saved searches by tag, click on the star icon on the left. To search by keyword, tag, folder name (path), click on the magnifying glass icon on the left.%%
### Index
%%This is your [structured data](https://port.sas.ac.uk/mod/book/view.php?id=75&chapterid=129) space. 
 You can create your own inline fields, in addition to event dates and page number. Add event dates and link to notes for events, places, people, institutions, and works here. The Dataview (installed in this vault) plugin can find links so links do not require a field name. You can index by any other category important to your research.%%
 
start-date:: 1972-03-24
end-date::
page-no:: 83...
[[1972.03.24 Cuban Film Festival (event note)]]
[[Days of Water (Los días del agua, 1971) - work note]]

### Connections
%%This is your [Zettelkasten](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zettelkasten) space where you link your quotes and ideas.
 In the Backlinks section, on the bottom left, you see all notes that link to this note. ->
 Your connections are displayed in the graph on the left. Each type of note has its own color. Click on the gear icon in the graph and the expand the Groups category to see how to set up your colors. To include only quotes from sources on this graph, type "#source" in the Filters section->
 Here you create links between notes and, if needed, links to Zotero items.%%

[[2. lucia shown in the US two years after cuban film festival (primary source)#Note]]
%%This link will take you directly to the Note heading in the linked note.%%
 
comment:: This is both state censorship and public demand for the boycott from anti-Castro immigrants
%%^ This is the space for your own comments. 
 It is formatted as a field so you can search your comments separately in Dataview.%%

- [ ] Get the NYRB protest letter

%%^ This is a task. 
 Click next to the checkbox to see how to type it in Markdown: just type `- [ ] ` on a new line. You can place tasks anywhere in your notes and browse them in the "all tasks" note in the Dataview folder.%%
 
### Note
%%This quote contains a link to the highlighted annotation in the pdf of an article downloaded and annotated in Zotero. 
 To learn more, check out [instructions](https://publish.obsidian.md/history-notes/From+Zotero+Annotations+to+Obsidian+Research+Notes) on how to import annotations from Zotero. 
 Note: The links below to the annotation and the Zotero item are specific to my Zotero database so they won't work for you.%%
 
The same day of the momentous gala evening presided over by Chairman Mao acting as host to the U.S. president and his wife, the U.S. State Department denied visas to the, by then internationally acclaimed, Cuban directors who were to participate in the First Cuban Film Festival in New York. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman J. William Fulbright questioned why the "U.S. government should consider four filmmakers a security threat and not Mao Tse-tung and the People's Republic of China" (Myerson 1973, 30). Other senators also protested, including Edward Kennedy and George McGovern.The New YorkPost and the Los Angeles Times also questioned this act. The festival's organizer, Michael Myerson, was a leader of the New Left since its inception. A Berkeley student, Myerson organized SLATE, a radical leftist political party within the university, and went on to construct an ongoing link with the Cuban revolution. He argued that the U.S. government's treatment of the Cuban directors was unlawful, and that the eventual halt of the film festival was linked to a group of Cuban exiles, all of whom had participated in the CIA-organized Bay of Pigs invasion and were "serving" the Nixon administration (1-3). Myerson's strong evidence was the presence of other anti-Castro associations in the Nixon administration: four of the five men arrested on June 17, 1972, at the Watergate Hotel were Cuban Americans who had been linked to the CIA and to the Bay of Pigs affair. [Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/P7ES36W9?page=83&annotation=9Y3TZADV) ([Amaya, 2010, p. 83](zotero://select/library/items/FNBY5ZA2))

Besides their potential relation to Nixon's government, conservative Cuban Americans played another important role in making the First Cuban Film Festival a politically laden event. 

Similar to the violence directed toward Gelber's play in 1968, radical Cuban Americans organized protests in front of the Olympia theater (which was to host the event), stoned the theater, and threatened to bomb it (32). Though the festival opened March 24, 1972, the pressures to impede its continuation were too great, and the U.S. State and Treasury Departments stopped the festival March 25, seized the prize-winning film Days of Water (1971), and committed an old-fashioned act of cultural repression. 

The critics protested. Vincent Canby of the New York Times and Jay Cocks of Time wrote to complain about the government's halting of the festival, and, as I mentioned, a group of film critics published a letter "To the Editors" in The New York Review of Books, also protesting. This letter poignantly stated: 

"We think it either sinister or absurd when access to foreign art can be turned off and on like a tap to suit the government's current policy, when Americans are not allowed to see Cuban films only weeks after the President has been televised worldwide cheerfully applauding the Peking Ballet.... The blockade of Cuba by the United States has been a foolish and destructive mistake"  ^4c67a2

(Vogelet al. 1972). The signers were Amos Vogel, Sarris, Annette Michelson, Dwight MacDonald, Gelber, Cocks,Jonas Mekas, Nat Hentoff, Richard Gilman, Ricki Franklin, Kauffmann, Stephen Koch, and William Wolf. Several of the signers would be reviewers of Cuban films. [Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/P7ES36W9?page=84&annotation=LZC4ECHZ) ([Amaya, 2010, p. 84](zotero://select/library/items/FNBY5ZA2))
