 ---
type: "book"
author: "Joyce, James"
title: "Ulysses"
date: 1922-01-01
citekey: joyceUlysses1922
---
Joyce, James. _Ulysses_. Paris and London: Egoist Press, 1922. [online](http://zotero.org/users/40/items/4ZSSXXLD) [local](zotero://select/library/items/4ZSSXXLD) [pdf](file:///Users/er/zotero/storage/AZYWCNA7/Joyce_Ulysses_1922.pdf) 
%%^ This is your source information from Zotero (expand for more)
 This information about your source was imported from Zotero with [Zotero Integration plugin](https://github.com/mgmeyers/obsidian-zotero-integration) (installed in this vault). To learn more, check out [instructions](https://publish.obsidian.md/history-notes/From+Zotero+Annotations+to+Obsidian+Research+Notes) on how to import metadata from Zotero. 
 Note: local and online links are specific to my Zotero database so they won't work for you.%%

 %%In the space in between --- lines (YAML space), fields are delimited by a single column ":" and field data is put in quotation marks. __If you switch to the reading view (click on the eyeglasses icon above), my comments and the YAML space will not be visible.__%%

 %%You can use these fields to do more precise searches through your research notes, for example, to find all notes from a particular book, by a particular author, or from a particular folder in an archive.%% 

 %%To view sample searches, click on "Manage Workspaces" button on the left and choose "View data," then browse the notes in the "meta/dataview" folder. To get back to this view, click on "Enter notes" in the Workspaces list.%%

#source/primary 
#project/ulysses
#subject/numbers_in_literature
%%^ These are your tags. 
 You can create nested tags. You can add types of sources, such as "primary" or "secondary;" project name; types of people, such as "writer" or "fictional character", etc. 
 To find all records tagged by a tag, just click on it.
 To see tag list, click on the # icon on the left. 
 To see saved searches by tag, click on the star icon on the left. To search by keyword, tag, folder name (path), click on the magnifying glass icon on the left.%%

### Index
%%This is your [structured data](https://port.sas.ac.uk/mod/book/view.php?id=75&chapterid=129) space. 
 You can create your own inline fields (To learn more, check out [[4. Leopold Bloom's walk in Dublin (event note)|this note]], in addition to event dates and page number. Add event dates and link to notes for events, places, people, institutions, and works here. The Dataview (installed in this vault) plugin can find links so links do not require a field name. You can index by any other category important to your research.%%

start-date:: 1866-01-01
end-date:: 
page-no:: 632
[[4. Leopold Bloom's walk in Dublin (event note)]]
[[5. Bloom, Leopold (person note)]]
[[Ulysses (work note)]]
[[Dublin (place note)]]

### Connections
%%This is your [Zettelkasten](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zettelkasten) space where you link your quotes and ideas.
 In the Backlinks section, on the bottom left, you see all notes that link to this note. ->
 Your connections are displayed in the graph on the left. Each type of note has its own color. Click on the gear icon in the graph and the expand the Groups category to see how to set up your colors. To include only quotes from sources on this graph, type "#source" in the Filters section->
 Here you create links between notes and, if needed, links to Zotero items.%%

For Bloom's year of birth, see [[2. we don't know bloom's date of birth (secondary note)#Note]]
%%This link will take you directly to the Note heading in the linked note.%%

comment:: Can I express all this in a math formula? 
%%^ This is the space for your own comments. 
 It is formatted as a field so you can search your comments separately in Dataview.%%

### Note
%%This is your note text--a quote from  _Ulysses_, typed from a hardcover book. 
 To see an imported Zotero PDF annotation, go to note [[2. we don't know bloom's date of birth (secondary note)#Note]].%%

 %%You can search your notes and display found words in context. To search, click on the magnifying glass on the left. Type "born" in the search field. You will see two found records with the word "born" displayed in context. Click on "Collapse results" button on the top to hide the context, or click on "Show more context" button to expand it.%%

What relation existed between their ages?

16 years before in 1888 when Bloom was of Stephen's present age Stephen was 6. 16 years after in 1920 when Stephen would be of Bloom's present age Bloom would be 54. In 1936 when Bloom would be 70 and Stephen 54 their ages initially in the ratio of 16 to 0 would be as 171/2 to 131/2, the proportion increasing and the disparity diminishing according as arbitrary future years were added, for if the proportion existing in 1883 had continued immutable, conceiving that to be possible, till then 1904 when Stephen was 22 Bloom would be 374 and in 1920 when Stephen would be 38, as Bloom then was, Bloom would be 646 while in 1952 when Stephen would have attained the maximum postdiluvian age of 70 Bloom, being 1190 years alive having been born in the year 714, would have surpassed by 221 years the maximum antediluvian age, that of Methusalah, 969 years, while, if Stephen would continue to live until he would attain that age in the year 3072 A.D., Bloom would have been obliged to have been alive 83,300 years, having been obliged to have been born in the year 81,396 B.C.