---
type: "journalArticle"
author: "Biskind, Peter"
title: "Lucia: Struggles with history"
publication: "Jump Cut"
date: 1974-07-01
citekey: biskindLuciaStrugglesHistory1974
---
Biskind, Peter. “Lucia: Struggles with History.” _Jump Cut_, no. 2 (August 1974): 7–8.
[online](http://zotero.org/users/40/items/3WV5UU3V) [local](zotero://select/library/items/3WV5UU3V) [pdf](file:///Users/er/zotero/storage/Q3DE9HWL/Biskind_Lucia%20Struggles%20with%20history_1974.pdf)
 
#source/primary 
#project/film-censorship 
%%^ These are your tags. 
 You can create nested tags. You can add types of sources, such as "primary" or "secondary;" project name; types of people, such as "writer" or "fictional character", etc. 
 To find all records tagged by a tag, just click on it.
 To see tag list, click on the # icon on the left. 
 To see saved searches by tag, click on the star icon on the left. To search by keyword, tag, folder name (path), click on the magnifying glass icon on the left.%%
 
### Index

start-date:: 1974-01-01
end-date:: 
page-no:: 7
[[1972.03.24 Cuban Film Festival (event note)]]

### Connections
%%No connections here, but in the graph and in the Backlinks you will see all notes that linked to this note ->
You can also click on the arrow in the right-hand bar to view Outgoing links and the Outline of this note.->%%

comment:: Censorship of Lucia during the Cuban Film Festival in 1972

- [ ] See _Memories of Underdevelopment_

### Note
%%You can search your notes and display found words in context. To search, click on the magnifying glass on the upper left. Type "Cuban" in the search field. You will see two found records with the word "Cuban" displayed in context. Click on "Collapse results" button on the top to hide the context, or click on "Show more context" button to expand it.%%
 
Five years after it was made, and two years after its premier in New York at the ill-fated Cuban Film Festival in 1972, LUCIA, the two and one-half hour epic of Cuban development directed by Humberto Solas has been recently made available in 35mm and 16mm by Tricontinental Films. 

For those familiar with the difficulties involved in viewing Cuban films in this country, LUCIA provides a rare opportunity to see an extraordinary film, and serves as a reminder of what we have been missing as a result of the Nixon administration's byzantine attitude towards Cuba.  ^7f31fb

Despite the flurry of protest occasioned by the seizure of Cuban films at the Festival in 1972, the episode has been generally forgotten, and in the course of the hue and cry over the Solzhenitsyn affair, it has been made to appear that the USSR has a monopoly on State censorship of art and artists. If doesn't. Not only did the Treasury Department succeed in closing down the Festival, but as a consequence bankrupted American Documentary Films, the Festival's chief sponsor and one of the few independent distributors of dissenting political films, intimidated such institutions as the Museum of Modern Art and the American Film Institute into dropping scheduled screenings of suddenly "controversial" Cuban films, and as recently as January 1974 prevented Tomas Gutierrez Alea, director of MEMORIES OF UNDERDEVELOPMENT, from entering the country to accept an award from the National Society of Film Critics in New York. MEMORIES itself was premiered last spring; and now, a year later, we finally have a chance to see LUCIA. Why, in these two instances, the American government relaxed its cultural blockade of Cuba is a mystery. Perhaps these films shown separately at discrete intervals do not possess the dreadful first strike capacity attributed to the group of films mobilized for the Cuban Film Festival. [Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/Q3DE9HWL?page=7&annotation=P338GAWT) ([Biskind, 1974, p. 7](zotero://select/library/items/3WV5UU3V))

