---
type: "journalArticle"
author: "Crispi, Luca"
title: "The Genesis of Leopold Bloom: Writing the Lives of Rudolph Virag and Ellen Higgins in Ulysses"
publication: "Journal of Modern Literature"
date: 2012-01-01
citekey: crispiGenesisLeopoldBloom2012
---
Crispi, Luca. “The Genesis of Leopold Bloom: Writing the Lives of Rudolph Virag and Ellen Higgins in Ulysses.” _Journal of Modern Literature_ 35, no. 4 (2012): 13–31. [https://doi.org/10.2979/jmodelite.35.4.13](https://doi.org/10.2979/jmodelite.35.4.13). [online](http://zotero.org/users/40/items/B56EVJ5M) [local](zotero://select/library/items/B56EVJ5M) [pdf](file:///Users/er/zotero/storage/93TJZ26W/Crispi_The%20Genesis%20of%20Leopold%20Bloom%20Writing%20the%20Lives%20of_2012.pdf) 

#source/secondary 
#project/ulysses

### Index
start-date:: 1866-01-01
end-date:: 
page-no:: 14
[[Ulysses (work note)]]
[[5. Bloom, Leopold (person note)]]

### Connections
%%No connections here, but in the graph you will see all notes that linked to this note ->
You can also click on the arrow in the right-hand bar to view the Backlinks, Outgoing links, and the Outline of this note. The Backlinks and Outgoing links show connections with other notes in more detail.->%%

### Note
%%This quote contains a link to the highlighted annotation in the pdf of an article downloaded and annotated in Zotero. 
 To learn more, check out [instructions](https://publish.obsidian.md/history-notes/From+Zotero+Annotations+to+Obsidian+Research+Notes) on how to import annotations from Zotero. 
 Note: The links below to the annotation and the Zotero item are specific to my Zotero database so they won't work for you.%%

A careful reading shows that we actually know very little about Leopold Bloom as a young man. The most glaring omission in the story of his life in Ulysses is his date of birth. While we find out that Bloom was certainly born in 1866, quite surprisingly we are never told on what precise day or month this momentous event took place. [Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/93TJZ26W?page=14&annotation=M85T4VHN) ([Crispi, 2012, p. 14](zotero://select/library/items/B56EVJ5M)) ^3841aa